you can there's certain certain animals
that go through larval stages right so
you can taste so what the Russians were
using um beetle beetle larvae and uh and
Doug and other people used uh used used
moths and butterflies so what happens is
you train you train the larva right so
so here you've got a butterfly a
caterpillar so so this caterpillar lives
in a two-dimensional world it's a
soft-bodied robot it lives in a
two-dimensional world that eats leaves
and so on right and so you train this
thing for a particular task well during
metamorphosis it needs to become a moth
or butterfly which it lives in a
three-dimensional world plus it's a
hard-bodied creature so so the
controller is completely different right
for running this for running a
caterpillar versus a butterfly so so
during that process what happens is the
brain is basically dissolved so most of
the connections are broken most of the
cells are gone they die uh you you put
together a brand new brain that
self-assembles and you can ask all sorts
of interesting philosophical questions
of what it's like to be a creature whose
brain is undergoing this massive change
uh but the information remains and so
one can ask okay this is you know
certainly for computer science it's it's
amazing to have a comp to have to have a
memory medium that can survive this
radical re-re Remodeling and
reconstruction and there's there's the
RNA story but but also
um uh you had mentioned you know does
this does this work from for mammals so
there was a guy in the 70s and 80s there
was a there was a guy named George Ungar
who did tons of he's got tons of papers
he uh reproduced it in rats so so his
was fear of the dark and he actually
um by by establishing this assay and
then
um uh you know fractionating their
brains and and extracting this this uh
activity now he thought it was a peptide
not not RNA so he he ended up with a
with a thing called scotophobin which
turns out to be I think an eight mer
peptide or something and the claim was
that you can transfer this scotophobia
you can synthesize it and then transfer
it from brain to brain and and that's
and that's you know that's that's what
he thought it was and then of course I
think David glansman favors RNA again
but yeah I agree with you I think I
think that's a that's a that's a super
important story of how it is that this
kind of information can survive uh just
just massive uh remodeling of the of the
cognitive substrate in planaria what we
what we did and and planaria you know
they they have a true centralized brain
they have all the same neurotransmitters
that we have they're not as simple a
simple organism
um what we did was McConnell's first
experiments which is to train them on
something and we train them to recognize
a laser etched um kind of bumpy pattern
on the bottom of the dish to recognize
that that's where their food was going
to be found so they made this
association between this pattern and
getting food and then we cut their heads
off and and we took the Tails and the
Tails sit there for 10 days doing
nothing and then eventually they grow a
new brain and what happens is that
information is then imprinted onto the
new brain and then and then you can
recover behavioral you know evidence
that they remember the information
so so that's pretty cool too because it
suggests that well we don't know if the
information is everywhere or if it's in
other places in the peripheral nervous
system or in this you know in the Nerf
core that we don't know where it is yet
but it's clear that it can move around
that the information can move around in
the body because it can be in the
posterior half and then imprinted onto
the brain which actually drives all the
all the behaviors
so thinking about that I I totally agree
that this is this is a really important
rabbit hole for asking but but it has it
there's an interesting puzzle here which
which is which is this you know it's one
thing to remember things that are
evolutionarily uh adaptive like fear of
the dark and things like this but
imagine and this hasn't really been done
well but imagine for a moment if we
could train them to something that is
completely novel let's say let's say we
train them um uh three yellow life
flashes means to take a step to your
left otherwise you get shot something
like that and let's say they learn to do
it we haven't done this yet but let's
see let's say this could be could work
one of the big uh puzzles is going to be
when you extract whatever it is that you
extract let's say it's RNA or protein
whatever it is you stick it into the
brain of a recipient host and in order
for that memory to transfer one of the
things that the host has to be able to
do is it has to be able to decode it and
in order to decode it it's one thing if
we share the same code book and by
Evolution we could have the same same
code book for things that come up all
the time like fear of the dark view you
know things like that but how do you how
how would the recipient look at a a a a
weird sort of you know some some kind of
crazy hairpin RNA structure and look at
and and analyze it and be like oh yes
that's three light flashes and then uh
step to the left I see so you would need
to be able to interpret somehow this
this structure and convert it back to
the behavior and for and for behaviors
that are truly arbitrary that might be I
don't know actually how that would work
and so so I think the frontier of this
field is going to be to have a really uh
convincing demonstration of of a
transfer of a memory that doesn't have a
plausible pre-existing shared
evolutionary decoding because because
otherwise you have a you have a real
puzzle as to how the how the the
decoding is going to work so this this
idea and and then and then even without
the transfer you can also think of it a
different way every memory is like a
message is like basically a transplanted
message from your past self to your
future yourself meaning that you still
have to decode your memories whatever
your memories are in an important sense
you have to you know those engrams you
have to decode them somehow so
um that that whole issue of of encoding
and decoding whatever the substrate of
memory is is you know maybe one of the
most important questions there are
you just watched a clip from the
theories of everything channel for the
full video and all its magnificence then
click here and if you'd like to see more
then subscribe enjoy